- `inlinePrimitive` followed by primitive number. Followed by a primitive number, and the primitive is looked up and swapped in place of the `inlinePrimitive`, so it essentially becomes a new threadedFn, and lets us extend those without changing the size of the `threadedFn.functions` array (making image dumps more portable).  There would be an extra function named `inlinePrimitive` in structs supporting this.
	- **Must not fail.** (at least initial version or see below)
	- could handle failure by creating a special context if there isn't one and doing a full-dispatch send and then returning from that created context if we created one (note we'd have to save the `extra` parameter if we created a context, so that we can restore it before continuing with the function so that it can create a proper one when required)
	- the word following the primitive could be the selector (symbol) augmented by the primitive number. that way if we wanted to handle the failure, we would have the proper symbol to send.
- `extra` indicates if a context has been created.... it will not be a `*CompiledMethod` when one has been created. This means a `send` or `popLocal` could create one on the fly. We would have to know where it should go, but we could push an invalid `Context` on the stack on a send/tailsend. `tailSend` would also know what kind of cleanup it had to do.
- although the test for match could be moved from `send`/`tailSend` into the method, which would maybe save 1 or 2 when running a JITted method, it would mean an extra parameter to all threadedFns and an extra word for every send, which doesn't seem like the right trade-off
- 